.\" Copyright (C) 1999-2000 Cameron Moore
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\" as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\" of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307, USA.
.\" Or try here: http://www.fsf.org/copyleft/gpl.html
.\"
.TH awayrc 5 "November 2000" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
awayrc \- configuration file for Away
.SH DESCRIPTION
An away configuration file consists of a series of commands.
Each line of the file may contain only one command.  Command names are
case-insensitive.  Commands and arguments are separated by spaces.

The hash mark, or pound sign ("#"), is used as a comment character.
You can use it to annotate your configuration file.  All text after
the comment character to the end of the line is ignored.

Take note that if any mailboxes are configured in the rc file, they
will be the only mailboxes checked, which means that you must add your
inbox--the
.B $MAIL
environment variable will be ignored.
.SH COMMANDS
.IP "mail VALUE"
This command allows the user to disable or enable the checking of
the user's mailboxes.  If mail checking is disabled, all
.I mailbox
and
.I maildir
commands are ignored.  VALUE can be 0, 1, no, or yes.  The default
value is 'yes'.
.IP "mailbox FILENAME"
A file that should be checked for "new mail."  The filename will be
appended to the previous
.B maildir
declaration.  An optional description of the mailbox may be supplied.
If the description contains a space, the entire description must be
enclosed in braces, "{" and "}".
.IP "maildir DIRECTORY"
A path where subsequent
.B mailbox
declarations will be located.  The only argument is the path itself.
.IP "persist VALUE"
This command will set whether to do persistent mail checking.  VALUE
can be 0, 1, no, or yes.  The default value is 'yes'.
.IP "time SECONDS"
This command will set the number of seconds that away sleeps before
performing its background tasks.  Presently, the only background task
that away will perform is the checking of mailboxes.  The SECONDS value
must be more than the minimum, which set at compile time.  The only
argument is the number of seconds.  The default value is 300.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
# check mailboxes
mail yes

# check mail every 60 seconds
time 60

# do not do persistent checking
persist no

# inbox
maildir /var/spool/mail
    mailbox johndoe                {your Inbox}

# procmail folders
maildir /home/johndoe/mail
    mailbox linux-security         {Linux Security}
    mailbox mutt-announce          {Mutt Announce}
.SH FILES
.I ~/.awayrc
.RS
Per user configuration file.
.RE
.SH BUGS
Bug reports should be sent to the away mailing list
<away@unbeatenpath.net>.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR away (1)
.SH AUTHORS
Cameron Moore <cameron@unbeatenpath.net>, and others.
